# data-mining-spring-23
CSC 6740 Data Mining - Fraud Detection Project

The dataset being analyzed in this project was sourced from https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/ealaxi/paysim1 and is
available from Edgar Lopez-Rojas under the CC BY-SA 4.0 public license
(https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode).

Due to space limitations, the dataset is not included in the repository. To execute the code, you must first download
the zipped data directory from kaggle, extract it, rename as "data_raw.csv", and place inside the "data" directory of
this repository. requirements.txt contains all necessary Python dependencies to execute the project scripts.

data_processing.py handles data ingestion, processing, and exploratory analysis. After executing it, you should have
data_cleaned.csv in the data directory, and 3d_scatter.png and corr_heatmap.png in the plots directory.

Once data_processing.py has executed, you can execute classification.py, which handles model fitting and evaluation.
After executing it, you should have xgb_precision_recall.png and xgb_feature_importance.png in your plots directory.

However, if you're only interested in the output from the code execution, read on:
The Python console messages from the execution of the two scripts are found in data_processing_log.txt and
classification_log.txt. All of the plots generated by execution can be found in the plots directory, and the
exploratory analysis report generated in the commented portion of data_processing.py can be found in the data folder
as data_profiling.html.
